To set the stage, we’d like to begin
with a few thoughts about the subject
“Serve Jehovah With Rejoicing.”
This is what we are told at Psalm 100:2.
But do you serve Jehovah
with rejoicing all the time?
I guess we all will agree
that at times it
can be difficult to be happy.
So, then, is it really important
to serve Jehovah with rejoicing?
And what does it really mean?
In other words, what is this joyful attitude
that Jehovah expects from us?
And what can we do to serve Jehovah
with rejoicing and maintain a joyful spirit?
How can we prove that it is important
to serve Jehovah with rejoicing?
You might think of our goal,
which is to reflect his personality.
At 1 Timothy 1:11,
he’s called “the happy God.”
So isn’t it logical that Jehovah expects us
to be happy in his service?
In Deuteronomy chapter 28,
we find a report
of God’s dealings with the Israelites.
Here Jehovah warned them
of what would take place
if they became disobedient
and lost their joy in serving him.
We read at Deuteronomy chapter 28,
beginning in verse 45:
“All these curses
will certainly come upon you
“. . . because you did not listen
to the voice of Jehovah your God
“by keeping his commandments and . . .
“because you did not serve Jehovah your God
“with rejoicing and joy of heart
when you had
such an abundance of everything.”
Jehovah took such good care
of the Israelites,
and yet they were not happy.
This attitude was something
he did not like at all.
So we see that serving Jehovah joyfully
is very important.
This was emphasized by what Jesus taught.
For example, in the Sermon on the Mount,
he helped his audience to understand
how to be happy.
At times, this part in Matthew chapter 5
is referred to as the nine happinesses.
Later, the apostle Paul
wrote about “the fruitage of the spirit.”
Joy is counted among the aspects
of the fruitage of the spirit.
Being joyful is important,
and by means of his spirit,
Jehovah helps us to rejoice in his service.
But is it realistic to expect
that we will smile all the time
and cheerfully sing songs the whole day?
Of course, this is not what Jehovah expects.
We all have different personalities
and express our happiness differently.
Also, there are moments in life
when we are sad and disappointed.
And Jehovah is fully aware
that some of us are not healthy.
Others might fight depression
and are therefore at times
just not able to express joy in this way.
And yet he loves all of us
and appreciates us very much.
So, then, what is the joy
that Jehovah expects from us?
What exactly is
this joyful spirit, or attitude?
Here in Deuteronomy,
the term “rejoicing” means
“the inner feeling
and the outward manifestation of joy.”
And we also read about the “joy of heart.”
The heart stands for
what we are on the inside.
This is the interior man and is displayed
in all his various activities,
desires, affections, emotions,
passions, thoughts, and so on.
And so we see that joy comes from within us.
Yet, does the joy we are talking about
depend on circumstances?
Let’s illustrate: I think it’s safe to say
that we all like sunshine.
However, how does the farmer feel
when he urgently needs it to rain
and he’s waiting and waiting?
He probably would be happier if he had rain.
In these last days, we rarely, if ever,
have perfect circumstances with no problems.
So I think we can all agree
that our joy in Jehovah’s service
is not based on circumstances.
And we’ve had here
on this program and in our publications
many examples of ones
who have maintained their joy
in Jehovah’s service
despite challenging circumstances,
like poor health or opposition.
So, then, what is it
that makes us a happy person?
To help us to open up
the scope of the answer,
would you be willing to join me
for a little experiment?
Please close your eyes for a moment.
Do you have your eyes closed?
So now think about an apple.
Now you can open your eyes again.
Let me ask you a question:
Did you think about a red apple,
a green apple,
or a yellow apple?
Why are you able to answer this question?
All I asked you to do
was to think about an apple.
The answer is, we think in pictures.
In fact, we think
of countless pictures every day.
And after we think about it,
it’s like we put
all of the pictures in a stack.
And then when we think
the same thought a second time,
it’s like we pull the picture out from below
and put it on top of the stack.
The longer that we do not think the thought,
the deeper the picture gets in the stack
and it becomes more difficult to remember.
Now, this stack of pictures
representing our thoughts
is our subconscious.
This stack of pictures makes up
our emotional state, or state of mind.
It determines whether we are sad or happy,
whether we are bored
or excited, and so forth.
Jehovah our Creator
is aware of this powerful connection
between our thoughts  and pictures.
Let’s please turn to 2 Kings chapter 6
to find one example
of how Jehovah made use of this.
Here we find the report
about the king of Syria
who wanted to capture Elisha.
How did his attendant feel?
Let’s see at 2 Kings chapter 6,
beginning with verse 15:
“When the attendant of the man
“of the true God rose early and went outside,
“he saw that an army with horses
and war chariots was surrounding the city.
“At once the attendant said to him:
“‘Alas, my master!
What are we to do?’”
The attendant was in fear.
He probably thought
about their defenseless position
and saw himself
already captured by the Syrian army.
Would Elisha be able to help his attendant?
Verse 16:
“But he [Elisha] said: ‘Do not be afraid!
For there are more who are with us
than those who are with them.’”
In other words, Elisha said:
‘Think of something else.
Think of the many that are with us.’
Did this work?
It seems that the attendant was not able
to focus on these reassuring thoughts.
He could not envision Jehovah rescuing them.
How did Jehovah help the attendant?
At 2 Kings 6:17, we read:
“Then Elisha began to pray and say:
“‘O Jehovah, open his eyes,
please, that he may see.’
“Immediately Jehovah
opened the attendant’s eyes and he saw,
“and look! the mountainous region
“was full of horses and war chariots of fire
all around Elisha.”
Jehovah helped the attendant with pictures.
The horses and chariots
captured his attention.
His thoughts now focused on the fact
that Jehovah
was with them and in full control.
Now, in his mind,
he already saw Jehovah’s victory,
and he was not concerned anymore.
He was happy.
What he saw influenced his thoughts
and changed his state of mind.
Thoughts are so powerful!
And how considerate Jehovah is!
Remember, in the end,
Jehovah did not need
any of these horses and chariots.
He saved Elisha and his attendant
by striking the Syrian army with blindness.
When we compare the emotions of Elisha
with his attendant, what made the difference?
The circumstances were exactly the same.
Their thoughts made the difference.
Now, what
does this have to do with our subject
“Serve Jehovah With Rejoicing”?
So far, we have established
that Jehovah expects us to be happy, right?
We have seen that our thoughts
can be pictures that influence
who we are and how we feel.
Pictures and thoughts are closely connected.
That’s why the apostle Paul at Romans 12:2
highlights the importance
of our thoughts when he says:
“Be transformed by making your mind over,”
or at Ephesians 4:23,
he emphasizes this by saying:
“And you should continue to be made new
in your dominant mental attitude.”
Both scriptures highlight that our thoughts
are critical and have a bearing
on our whole being.
Additionally, the apostle Paul knew
that we can change our thinking.
Please turn with me
to 2 Corinthians chapter 10,
and see what he recommends that we do.
Here at 2 Corinthians 10:5, he says:
“We are bringing every thought into captivity
to make it obedient to the Christ.”
Isn’t this exactly what we should do?
We control what we think.
We avoid occupying our mind
with thoughts that weaken our faith
or thoughts that undermine
our determination to serve Jehovah.
Remember, we said that thoughts
are like pictures that stay within us.
We cannot delete them,
and they will have an effect on how we feel.
But is there something else we can do?
Are you ready for a second experiment?
Please close your eyes again,
and do not think of an apple.
You can open your eyes again.
Were you successful
in not thinking of an apple?
If so, you probably had to force yourself
to think of something else.
We are made to think.
So the key to serving Jehovah with rejoicing
lies not just in avoiding negative thoughts
but also in thinking healthy thoughts.
Philippians chapter 4 lists a few of them.
We read in verse 8:
“Finally, brothers, whatever things are true,
“whatever things are of serious concern,
“whatever things are righteous,
“whatever things are chaste,
whatever things are lovable,
“whatever things are well-spoken-of,
whatever things are virtuous,
“and whatever things are praiseworthy,
“continue considering
[or “thinking about;
meditating on”] these things.”
By considering and meditating on
these healthy subjects,
we create pictures in our mind
that make it easier for us
to display our joy in Jehovah’s service.
Serving Jehovah with rejoicing
really depends on us.
Happiness does not depend
on our circumstances;
happiness comes
from doing things Jehovah’s way.
When we actively control our thoughts,
we add more pleasant pictures.
And even if in the past
we’ve experienced things
that make it difficult
to express happiness,
in time,
these unpleasant pictures
will be buried under thoughts
like those listed in Philippians chapter 4.
And gradually
our inner peace, contentment,
and happiness grows
and can be seen by others.
Jehovah, our happy God,
appreciates every little step
in this direction
because it’s important to him
that we serve him with rejoicing.